docs: provide documentation for Talos 1.6 (#8071)
siderolabs/talos: website/content/v1.6/introduction/what-is-new/index.md

---
title: What's New in Talos 1.6.0
weight: 50
description: "List of new and shiny features in Talos Linux."
---

See also [upgrade notes]({{< relref "../../talos-guides/upgrading-talos/">}}) for important changes.

## Breaking Changes

### Linux Firmware

Starting with Talos 1.6, Linux firmware is not included in the default initramfs.

> User who need Linux firmware can pull them as extension during install time using the [Image Factory]({{< relref "../../learn-more/image-factory" >}}) service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users that need Linux firmware can pull them as an extension during install time using the [Image Factory]({{< relref "../../learn-more/image-factory" >}}) service.
```

If the initial boot requires firmware, a [custom ISO can be built]({{< relref "../../talos-guides/install/boot-assets" >}}) with the firmware included using the Image Factory service or using the `imager`.
This also ensures that the linux-firmware is not tied to a specific Talos version.

> The list of firmware packages which are now available as extensions:

Reviewer 2: i think this is confusing, we have more firmware as extensions, the list below is the ones we removed for 1.6

* containerd: 1.7.10
* runc: 1.1.10
* etcd: 3.5.11
* CoreDNS: 1.11.1
* Flannel: 0.23.0

Talos is built with Go 1.21.5.

### Extension Services

Talos now starts Extension Services early in the boot process, this allows guest agents packaged as extension services to be started in maintenance mode.

### Flannel Configuration

Talos Linux now supports customizing default Flannel manifest with extra arguments for `flanneld`:

```yaml
cluster:
  network:
    cni:
      flannel:
        extraArgs:
          - --iface-can-reach=192.168.1.1
```

### Kernel Arguments

Talos and Imager now supports dropping kernel arguments specified in `.machine.install.extraKernelArgs` or as `--extra-kernel-arg` to `imager`.
Any kernel argument that starts with a `-` is dropped.
Kernel arguments to be dropped can be specified either as `-<key>` which would remove all arguments that start with `<key>` or as `-<key>=<value>` which would remove the exact argument.

For example, `console=ttyS0` can be dropped by specifying `-console=ttyS0` as an extra argument.

### `kube-scheduler` Configuration

Talos now supports specifying the kube-scheduler configuration in the Talos configuration file.

> It can be set under `cluster.scheduler.config` and kube-scheduler will be automatically configured to with the correct flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be set under `cluster.scheduler.config` and `kube-scheduler` will be automatically configured to with the correct flags.
```
